Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a way for programmers to tell computers
what to do by writing special instructions.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is composed :
- Java Compiler (javac): This tool is used to compile Java source code into bytecode,
 which is the format that the JVM can execute.
- Java Virtual Machine (JVM): The JVM is a software program that interprets bytecode
 and executes Java programs.
- Java Runtime Environment (JRE): The JRE is a collection of software files that are necessary to run Java programs.
 It includes the JVM, the Java class libraries, and other supporting files.
- Java Class Libraries: These libraries are a collection of Java classes that provide a variety of functionality,
 such as input/output, networking, and string manipulation.
- Java Debugger: debugger is used to debug Java programs. It allows developers to step through Java code,
set breakpoints, and inspect variables.
- Other Tools: The JDK also includes a number of other tools for developing Java programs, such as
 the Javadoc documentation generator, the jar archiver, and the appletviewer.

What is IDE?
A. IDE stands for "Integrated Development Environment" It's a software application
that provides a comprehensive set of tools and features to assist developers in
creating, editing, debugging, and managing software code, all in a single GUI.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code, Oracle JDeveloper,
BlueJ, JDeveloper, DrJava, JCreator.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
- Compilation: The source code of the application is converted into bytecode using the javac compiler.
- Class Loading: The bytecode is loaded into memory and the necessary class files are prepared for execution.
- Execution: The bytecode is executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

what is class?
  A class is a blueprint or template for creating objects.
 It defines the structure and behavior of objects

What is object?
 An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
 The entry point of Java programs is the main() method.

Why main is static?
  The main is static to allow JVM to call it without creating an instance of the class
 containing the main() method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
 Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
  Path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe, java.exe, javadoc.exe..
 Classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
  An abstract class is a class that cannot be instantiated and can contain both abstract and non-abstract methods.
 An interface is a contract that specifies a set of methods that a class must implement.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
  You can't create an object of an abstract class or interface because they are incomplete classes.
 you can create a reference variable of an abstract class, which is used to refer to objects of derived classes.

what is Access Specifier?
  Is a code element that determines which elements of a program can access a variable or other data.
 Access specifiers control the visibility and accessibility of classes, methods, and variables.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
 OOP stands for Object-Oriented Programming, is about creating objects that contain both data and methods.
- Encapsulation: Encapsulation is the principle of hiding the object's data members and methods from other objects.
- Abstraction: the object's data and behavior are packaged together. This helps to keep the object's state
 consistent and prevents other parts of the program from accidentally changing it.
- Inheritance: that new objects can be created based on existing objects.
 This helps to reuse code and reduce the amount of development time.
- Polymorphism: different objects can respond to the same message in different ways.
 This helps to add flexibility to the program and make it easier to extend.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
   A Java package is a collection of related Java classes and interfaces. Packages help to
  organize code and make it easier to find the classes you need.
  By default, the java.lang package is imported in all Java classes.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
   API (Application Programming Interface) refers to a collection of classes, methods, and interfaces
  that provide a set of functionalities and services for software development.
- Basic Data Types: Classes like String, Integer, and Boolean for working with data.
- Collections: A comprehensive collection framework including ArrayList, HashMap, and LinkedList
for managing data structures.
- input/Output: Classes in the java.io package for file and stream input/output.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
  Java supports multiple inheritance through interfaces but not through classes.
 Java avoids multiple inheritance through classes to prevent ambiguity and complexity caused by the "diamond problem,"
 ensuring code predictability and maintainability.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
  Method overloading in Java refers to the ability to define multiple methods in a class with the same name
 but with different parameter lists. It happens when two or more methods within the same class have the same name
 but differ in the number, type, or order of their parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
   An exception is an event that occurs during the execution of a program, disrupting the normal flow of instructions.
  Exceptions can occur for various reasons, such as when trying to access an invalid array index, dividing by zero,
  or attempting to open a non-existent file.
  Exceptions are handled by using try-catch blocks.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
 The static keyword in Java is a non-access modifier used for methods and attributes. Static methods/attributes
can be accessed without creating an object of a class
 The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
  The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable
 (impossible to inherit or override).It is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value.

What is final, finally and finalize?
  Final, finally, and finalize are used in exception handling. Each term has a different purpose:
- final: means something can't change. For variables, it's like a constant. For methods, it can't be changed
by subclasses. For classes, it can't be extended.
- finally: is for cleanup. It's code that runs no matter what, like closing a file, even if there was an error.
- finalize: is a special method that's called when you're done with an object, but it's rarely used in modern Java
because there are better ways to manage resources.

What is a constructor ?
 A constructor is a special method in a class that creates and initializes an object of that type.
 Constructors are called "constructors" because they help construct an object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
  A class can have multiple constructors, as long as the parameter lists are not the same.
 This is known as constructor overloading.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
 A default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
 The "this" keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
 The "super" keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects.

What is JVM stand for ?
 JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
 Yes.

What version of java are you using?
 java 11

What is JAR stand for ?
 JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
  JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java. It is a software bundle which provides
 Java class libraries with necessary components to run Java code. JVM executes Java byte code and provides
 an environment for executing it.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
  JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution, while JVM is a subclass of JRE that
 decodes the bytecode into machine language and other minor tasks.

What is compile time and run time?
 Compile time is the period when the programming code (such as C#, Java, C, Python) is converted to the machine code,
 Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
 The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How java manage it's memory?
 Java automatically manages memory. The "garbage collector" is an autonomous memory management technique used by Java.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
  In Java, String is an immutable object, while StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable objects.
 StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized, while StringBuilder is not.
 This makes StringBuilder faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
  A Singleton class in Java is a class that can only have one object. This is useful for resources that
 should only exist once, such as a database connection or a logger.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
  Serialization in Java allows us to convert an Object to stream that we can send over the network or
 save it as file or store in DB for later usage. Deserialization is the process of converting
 Object stream to actual Java Object to be used in our program.

when to use transient variable in java?
  Transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save
 value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword. When JVM comes across transient keyword,
 it ignores original value of the variable and save default value of that variable data type.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
  The Do while loop will execute at least once, even if the condition is false. The while loop,
 only executes the body of the loop if the condition is true.

What is Enum?
  An Enum is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.
 The variable must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it.

What is Iterator?
 An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
  The Integer will take more
 The integer takes '16 bytes', while the int is only '4 bytes'.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
 Strings with the same content share storage in a single pool to minimize creating a copy of the same value,
 It increases security because any hacker can't change its value and it's used for storing sensitive information

What is constructor chaining in Java?
  Constructor chaining in Java is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor.
 This is done to avoid duplicate code and to make the code more readable.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
  Serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage
 collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
 Just-in-time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
 Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
 decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage
 collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
  No you can not.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
 Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
  Reflection in Java is a feature that allows a program to inspect and manipulate its own structure at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
 A process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
  Synchronization in Java is a mechanism for controlling access to shared resources by multiple threads.
 It ensures that only one thread can access a resource at a time, preventing thread interference and memory
 consistency errors.

What is Framework?
  A framework is a pre-designed and reusable software structure or set of libraries that provides a foundation
 for developing applications or specific types of software.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
 JUnit, TestNG, Selenium, Mockito, Cucumber

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
 TestNG is a Java-based framework, while JUnit is an open-source Unit Testing Framework for JAVA.

What are the dependencies for this project?
 downloaded from online "GitHub" repositories

what is dependency injection in java?
  Dependency Injection (DI) in Java is a design pattern that allows you to provide the dependencies (objects)
 that a class needs, rather than the class creating them

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
 Static Binding (Early Binding): Method is chosen at compile-time based on the reference type.
 Dynamic Binding (Late Binding): Method is determined at runtime based on the actual object type, allowing polymorphism.








